[music]
Hello and welcome to another episode of No Such Thing as a Fish, a weekly podcast this week coming
to you from four undisclosed locations in the UK. My name is Dan Schreiber, I am sitting here
with Anna Tyshinski, Andrew Hunter Murray and James Harkin and once again we have gathered
around the microphones with our four favorite facts from the last seven days and in no particular
order here we go. Starting with fact number one and that is Anna. My fact this week is that logs
used to be carried around the Andaman Islands by swimming elephants. There's a lot of information
to unpick in that. Okay here's the first one. In fact you've actually answered it with your fact
but I was going to say can elephants swim? I'm not going to dignify that with an answer, James.
It's like you're questioning the veracity of my facts. What? Yes they can. They can swim. I see I
do see what you're saying. Is it just these elephants or all elephants? Oh I thought he meant
are the logs like a floatation device and they were just using that to... That's a great point Dan,
that's exactly what I didn't really mean but let's pretend I did. I mean you don't get swimming
lessons for dogs do you but if they jump into a pond they're fine. Well interesting you say that my
mum actually has a dog which can't swim. It's very embarrassing but yes largely I think four-legged
mammals can instinctively swim and elephants can broadly and these ones particularly can but they
can swim incredibly long distances these particular Andaman elephants and they... So what happened was
the Andaman Islands, Andaman and Nicobar Islands in fact are territories of India about 572 islands
altogether and in about the 70s they started logging there and they brought a bunch of elephants
over from mainland India and they sort of pulled down trees in the jungle and then they'd load up
the elephants with trees and they'd take them to the beaches to be shipped off in barges but the
elephants had to block trees in various different islands and there was no way of transporting them
between the islands and so they just sent them on their way to swim it and they'd swim like 30
kilometers, 20-30 kilometers between islands do some logging and drag the logs out to sort of barges
out to sea and load them up. That's incredible. That is an incredible distance to travel as an
elephant. Are they getting guidance in terms of direction you know? Do currents take them out?
Are there lanes for them to swim in? They're heavily signposted and I think humans would accompany them
between the islands on small rafts and boats that couldn't accommodate the elephants. I don't,
I actually am not sure maybe they had memorized various routes but I think that might be a step
beyond a lot of elephants. An elephant could remember any route it was given couldn't it?
But because an elephant never forgets. Exactly yeah. Yeah I didn't know that we were doing a
common erroneous phrase-based fact now. The thing is about the elephants is I've read an article
called problems in the land vertebrate zoo geography of certain islands and the swimming
powers of elephants by David Lee Johnson from 1980 and he says, I'm sure you've all read it,
but he says, I'm sure all the listeners have read it, but he says that elephants have such good
eyesight and sense of smell that even kilometers and kilometers and kilometers away they can see
another island that most animals wouldn't be able to see and also smell food on another island.
Incredible. And because it could smell the food it could find its way there. Yeah. So you're saying
the logging humans make a phone call to the next island saying, look get a polo min,
leave it on the beach, I'm sending the elephant over now. Can I just say, I'm not saying that.
Donald Lee Johnson is saying that in his paper problems in the land vertebrate zoo geography
of certain islands and the swimming powers of elephants from 1980. He was saying that, I wasn't
saying that. That's so good. But you just need to, I don't know James, you're quoting him pretty
extensively. I think you are now saying that. That's such a good idea. But as long as all you
have to do is coordinate like no one, right, the elephants are moving today. No one's allowed to
open a banana. It's a key. Within a 50 mile radar. That's how you poach then, right? That's the best
poaching tactic. Yeah, absolutely. All the elephants just fuck off this way. Where are they going?
The thing is that according to this paper, until the 70s and 80s, a lot of geographers
assumed that elephants couldn't swim. And so when you found elephant bones on an island,
even if they'd gone extinct or something, or even if you found living elephants,
then there must have been a land bridge because otherwise there's no way they could have got
a cross. And that meant that a lot of geographers had these ideas of certain islands around the
world that must have been connected by land at some stage because they assumed that elephants could
swim. Really? That's interesting. That's amazing. I thought, I didn't properly know that elephants
could swim actually. I did know that they could walk underwater. That was a thing I knew at certain
depths because I've seen footage where they use their trunk as a snorkel. And so, yeah, that's
really fun when you see that bit of footage. But that, yeah, that's amazing. James, was it Donald
Johnson, you were saying? Yeah, it was Donald Lee Johnson and his paper Problems in the Land
Vertebrate Suji. No, no, I don't know if we need to. I didn't read that paper. I'm probably now the
only person listening here in Baltimore who hasn't. But I think that I read a reference to it because
there's a debate about how elephants got to Sri Lanka, isn't there? Yeah. And it was, because it's
about, how far is it from the Indian coast? Quite a long way. It is quite a long way, but it has
elephants. And lots of other places used to have elephants like Malta and Crete and Cyprus. Yes.
None of which I think have elephants now. I've been to Malta and it's quite a small island.
You would struggle to hide a wild elephant population on it.
The elephants on Sri Lanka, I think they're still swimming there. They're still making the journey
over to Sri Lanka because every few months it seems like there's a story where a Sri Lankan
elephant is caught at sea and is being swept around in the waves and has to be rescued.
Because there was one that, you know, in the media gets a theme and reports on every instance
of it and it turns out it's happening all the time. And it happened once in 2017.
A Sri Lankan elephant was found being washed around about 16 kilometers out to sea.
And, you know, they all had to get a raft and come and pull it in again. And then two weeks later,
two Sri Lankan elephants were found stranded at sea and had to be dragged back in. And it looks so
funny. You should look it up. There's all these people around with rafts and then bobbing under
the water. Just these two vast elephants who look so stupidly out of place in the middle of the ocean.
They look really kind, they're really struggling aren't they? And the first one anyway, the 2017
one, the elephants really, really struggling to swim. And National Geographic emailed the co-founder
of Elephant Voices, which I think is a charity called Joyce Pool. They emailed her and asked her
about elephant swimming. And she said she wasn't surprised that the elephant was swimming out
there because she said elephants are considered the best swimmers of any land mammal, perhaps
excluding trained human swimmers. And then they showed her the video of this elephant really,
really struggling to swim. And she said, maybe the elephant was tired.
It's 16 kilometers out. If you've swum 16 kilometers, pal, you'd be tired, wouldn't you?
I certainly would. There was the theory at one point that the Loch Ness Monster was a swimming
elephant, wasn't there? Was there? Yeah, because there was a story that there was a circus in town
and they thought let's bring the elephant out for a swim. And the very famous photo that was seen,
I think it was the famous photo, the surgeon's photo it's called, the thought is that that's
the trunk just coming up through the water, getting breath as it's going along.
It's not like humps going up to the trunk in the Loch Ness Monster.
Yeah, so I think they think that that's the head coming out from the back.
Maybe it was giving the circus' camel a piggyback in the water.
Yeah, and then the snake was at the back.
I guess it's not the stupidest theory ever, given that it only requires us to believe in
the existence of a badly managed circus, rather than the existence of a dinosaur in a lake.
Well, it's not a badly managed circus, taking your elephant out for a swim.
I think if they've left the elephant in there and it's being photographed by the public,
that's what I thought you were saying. No, I'm not saying that there's an
abandoned elephant swimming Loch Ness. That's what you're saying.
If you're saying the Loch Ness Monster is an elephant, then that's...
No, I'm saying the photo. There was a thought that the photo was an elephant.
Yeah, okay. But if they put it in, then they took it out.
I see what you're saying. I thought you meant like Andy,
there's been this elephant living under water in Loch Ness for hundreds of years,
which is almost more ridiculous than the Loch Ness Monster.
If you look at that photo, actually, if you look at the surgeon's photo,
you can just see in the corner of the shot a clown getting out of a little car.
And you can just see that it actually looks like water,
but it's actually confetti that he's swimming through.
And the clown's got giant shoes and has been mistaken for Bigfoot, actually, so...
Well, we've moved down to the realm of facts, haven't we?
Do you want a real fact about elephants? I've got one.
Okay, well, I'm going to put it in James's special Donald Lee Johnson tongs for quoting without
saying this is definitely true. I think it's an amazing theory that the theory is
that Cornwall's first road network ever was created by elephants.
It's one of my favorite facts. I can't believe we've never mentioned it before.
Uh-huh, uh-huh, go on.
This is according to researchers at the University of North Cornwall.
Who should know, frankly?
Can I quickly debunk their theory before it's even sort of found?
No, no, no, no. Anna, I would like to get my thing up in the air before you take a pop at it,
if that's all right. Up to 115,000 years ago, Cornwall had elephants.
Okay, that was a bit warmer. It had them, all right.
There's a fossil record and all of that stuff.
Sorry, just a check. So we're going to listen to this knowing it's wrong.
We're just going to sit here and listen to this.
We're not because I know it's right.
Okay.
And Anna may know something different, but let me tell you what I know.
Right, so you know how Ice Age is kind of retreat in advance as the millennia go by.
So the most recent glacial maximum covered most of the UK, but it didn't cover Cornwall, right?
It didn't get that far south.
That's definitely true.
So most of the elephant tracks across the UK will have been covered by ice sheets and erased,
but the ones in Cornwall were not.
And what the theory is by these researchers is that herds of migrating woolly mammoths and
elephants who came to the UK, they came to England basically on their summer holidays
when it was a bit warmer up there to eat, those tracks that they had, their roots,
which were used by them and by hunters, kind of map onto the road network in Cornwall today.
Ironically, it's the smaller roads that they created and not the trunk roads,
which were created in modern times for modern needs.
But the smaller road network in Cornwall is created by elephants.
Right, there, I've said my bit.
Now, please, Anna, get out of here.
Just going to say it doesn't make any sense because the roads in Cornwall are so sodding narrow
that two elephants could never pass each other on.
Actually, in the Ice Age, these elephants, they got stuck behind tractors so often
that they ended up trampling loads of extra roads.
When I was looking into elephants moving logs around everywhere,
I discovered that they actually moved trees and pooed them out eventually.
So, you know, they create trees.
They're not smuggling trees in the rain, so it's not a, it's, I'm getting-
It's a big session on the toilet, isn't it, an oak.
What I mean to say is-
As a mugger, you'd pay more, wouldn't you, for trees that hadn't been through the elephantanus.
So, what I mean to say is, there's the African savanna elephant, and what it does is,
it basically, through eating, it transports seeds further than probably any other animal
around, and this is including a lot of birds.
It's, it can go as far as 65 kilometers in delivering seeds, and that's because
its intestines are so long for the seeds and the food to get through
that it takes something like 33 hours, I believe, for it.
Before it, they actually start defecating the seeds that they might have swallowed,
and the last one will come out 96 hours after they've first swallowed a seed.
And so, they've been spreading plants and trees all over, you know, different parts,
at greater distances than, as I say, a lot of birds in the area,
and certainly any other land mammal.
I wonder if they know they're doing it.
Like, they pick up a seed and eat it, and then they sprint for 96 hours straight.
Some kind of conservation project.
Exactly, just open a banana in that area.
They come running.
Yeah.
It's clever.
Did we, you know, we talked a while ago about sort of elephant trunk uses.
Oh yeah.
And there, there was a bit which sort of came after that,
which, because we'd already recorded the podcast, it didn't go in,
but it was, and I found this website, which had all the uses of an elephant's trunk,
and like, as observed by scientists.
Okay.
And one of the, there are about 200, you know, there are so many different
things, and they all, they've all got a different name by the scientists.
So I don't think we mentioned this.
One of them is mating pandemonium is the one way they use their trunk.
One of them is dust with semen.
Okay.
So let's go back to the first one.
Mating pandemonium.
No pandas involved, I assume.
I hope not.
I'm lucky for them.
What does it mean?
What, what is it?
Must be just like, you, I mean, how do you make mating chaotic introduce your trunk?
I can see how that would cause pandemonium.
What, trunk up the bum?
No, it can't, that's not what it can mean, is it?
I know.
Do you?
Sounds like pandemonium to me.
Dan, do you want to have a guess?
Oh, um, do they, oh, do they, do they form a heart, um, like you would with your hands?
You know, it's just to let people know that some sex going on over here.
What a tame definition of, of pandemonium.
Romantic, frankly.
I think on kids, um, like maybe like, um, could it be like loads of males
attacking each other to attract a female, maybe?
Like a big fight.
It's much less fun, actually.
It's, um, it's a mated, when a female has had sex, her relatives and companions join her
and they have a party, basically.
So they, they shout and they rumble and they, they trumpet.
Like a baby shower.
It's like a baby shower, except it's a sort of post shag.
Right.
So I'm just quoting from the website here.
Females may turn towards the male, reaching their trunks to touch his penis
or his semen on the ground or to touch one another
and then turn rapidly outward in a kind of pirouette.
It's a bonding ceremony after, after one of your female friends has had sex.
Why don't we do that as humans?
I think that is a ceremony that should translate across species.
Every time someone loses their virginity.
Andy, you could have yours quite soon.
If the semen's on the ground, we could all pirouette away from you.
Okay, it is time for fact number two and that is Andy.
My fact is that there is a French parliamentary manoeuvre
which involves MPs hiding behind a curtain
and then bursting out to vote at the last minute.
Why, why?
It's really fun.
It's, it's not used often.
It's, it's not a weekly feature of the nationalism.
Well, you couldn't because then people would just check for feet sticking out.
How often people forget, eventually people forget.
Well, I found a reference to it being done in 2014
and I don't know if it's been done since then.
So this was a fact that a writer for the New Yorker called Lauren Collins
put it on Twitter and she reads a lot of French websites as well as English ones
and the National Assembly is their parliament basically
and it's got these enormous red curtains.
And if you think as the opposition that you're close to defeating the government,
sometimes you can try the coup de riteau which is the curtain blow
and you hide your MPs behind a curtain.
You hold the vote that, you know, the government gets all its votes in
and then they burst out from behind the curtain and vote against the government
and the idea is that they defeat them.
It's a way of lulling the government into thinking
that your side doesn't have the votes.
Doesn't the government, does the government ever say?
It's so weird there are only six of us in here
because I swear I saw about a dozen other people come in.
Well, the one main time when it happened in like living memory
was with Sarkozy, wasn't it?
He was, he had some kind of internet bill that he wanted to get through.
It was like just trying to, you know, ban people from the internet
if they copied too many things or whatever.
And everyone was so certain it was going to get through
that hardly any of his party turned up.
And so that's how the other, the opposition managed to do something.
The final result was 21 to 15 in the vote.
And if you think about how many hundreds of MPs there are in the
National Assembly, it's like they literally didn't think that it was a problem at all.
And then suddenly behind the curtain there were 21 people.
When they were behind those curtains, you could have said to your mates behind it,
we're all getting Sarkozy behind here, aren't we?
That's great.
And it would have made sense.
Yes.
No, but then everyone laughing so loud that your amazing joke
would have given the game away.
I was just reading some random stuff about French politics
and mostly I just really enjoy it when they conform to stereotypes.
So I enjoy that Felix Foray, who was president of France at the end of the 19th century,
died just while having sex with a 30-year-old mistress, obviously.
That puts a real doubter on the party that you're having afterwards, doesn't it?
The dusting with Siemens is going to be a pretty somber affair this afternoon.
From dust to dust, from Siemens to Siemens.
He died doing what he loved.
I think everyone could always say that.
Just one or two more things on French parliamentary shenanigans.
One thing caught my eye and it's just incidents that happen outside the French parliament.
In 2013, there was a group who launched a protest
by releasing a flash mob of chickens outside the French parliament.
They had 450 chickens in the back of their van.
They were a slightly regressive group, I'd say.
They were protesting against gay marriage.
And so they bundled 450 chickens into a van.
Their plan was to release them all outside the French parliament.
As part of an incredibly weak pun, Anna, you would have loved it.
Basically, they wrote "Ne plume pas les familles" or "Don't pluck families",
which also means don't rip people off with family taxes.
So it's a very convoluted trap shot.
I mean, the French for chicken is a cock.
Yeah, you're right.
You're absolutely right.
It feels like they missed a trick or two there.
I don't know.
Huge open goal missed.
Yeah.
And surely a headline must have read at some point.
450 chickens, that is enough.
Brilliant.
Just to give a little coda.
Only about 40 of them got out of the van, the chickens,
before the police noticed while all of these chickens out here
had started chasing them.
So then they closed the van and bundled off.
Very sadly, two of the chickens were then killed crossing the road.
But presumably they were the homophobic chickens who got out to protest.
So not too big a loss.
Can I tell you about a very exciting article page on Wikipedia that I read recently?
So just take us into the world of curtains for a second.
Curtain rings really, really brought the thunder I thought when I was reading it.
So there's a very interesting fact, which is that Lewis and Clark,
when they went out on their expeditions,
they brought a lot of curtain rings with them as presents.
Lewis and Clark, were they traveling across America?
The North American interior.
Yeah, they were.
I suppose they were interior guys.
That's the curtain rings.
So if they'd been exploring the exterior,
they would have taken the patio furniture with them and the fire pit.
So there's that little fact there.
And then there's this little paragraph of other uses and it says...
Should we just quickly say, because I think they will have carried them
like to trade, right?
Yes, sorry.
Yeah, they were to trade and they were gifts as well.
They were really popular, new innovations back then.
They didn't have incredibly elaborate tents there every night with 400 pairs of curtains.
But what, they're just a good thing to trade.
I mean, if you're taking them to people who by and large don't have curtains.
They use them as rings and earrings apparently,
which seems odd as they were specifically meant to be large enough to go around a human finger,
which I mean, all curtain rings.
Yeah, so that's the thing.
It says in this article, other uses, for example,
they may be used as a wedding ring in a marriage ceremony.
So that's one use that they could have.
What do you mean one?
What kind of sausage finger people are getting married?
That you could use a curtain ring as a wedding ring.
It's what this Wikipedia page says, but then the next thing it says is,
or it can be used as a ligature to prevent nocturnal urethes.
So bedwetting, right?
And I thought, okay, this suddenly sounds like someone's just taking the piss here.
They're just, someone's hacked this Wikipedia page.
I clicked on the link and it took me to a book that's written by a guy called Robert Liston,
who was a big surgeon.
And yeah, okay.
So check this out.
This is the extract from the book about using it as a ligature.
"AR, when eight years old, passed a brass curtain ring over his penis
to prevent incontinence of urine during the night,
and thereby escaping chastisement to which he had been frequently subjected.
Great swelling soon took place round the ring,
and he was unable to remove the jugum.
He experienced much pain and difficulty in..."
Sorry, can we go back to that word you casually used there?
Is it not jugum?
I've just not heard that word.
No, I've actually not heard that word either.
Oh, okay.
How do you spell it?
J-U-G-U-M.
Wait, Dan, when you say is it not, what do you think it is?
Well, I assume it's an old word for a curtain ring.
It's sort of another word for it.
Imagine if the word odd word all one day was jugum.
The internet would go fucking apeshit.
It's a very rare word, damn jugum.
You can't not acknowledge you just casually dropped the word jugum into a sentence.
It's say he's put something on his penis,
and then this is the same thing he can't take off.
It's obviously just another slang word for the item.
It's irrelevant to the story.
So, he experienced much pain and difficulty in voiding his urine.
The ring gradually ulcerated.
The ring appeared to sink into the substance of the penis, and the swelling subsided.
Oh.
Yes, except that this guy kept it on there.
It says that he then, after a while, became the father of a fine family.
So, he was eight years old when he put this on.
When between 50 and 60 years of age, he applied to me,
and then this doctor, Liston, then has to remove this curtain ring
that's been around this man's penis since the age of eight,
which has fused into the shaft of his penis.
So, you're saying it sort of migrated into his penis.
Exactly.
It kind of, it just--
Through the skin.
It got, exactly.
It migrated through the skin, and it became infused.
He had a curtain ring.
His penis was the rod to this curtain ring.
Yeah, no, no, no.
He had kids, he had everything.
He never thought to take it off.
If it's fused into your penis, I would just live with it.
Well, that's what he did.
Can I just say, we're filming this on Zoom today.
We don't usually at the moment.
And Dan is in a bedroom.
Can anyone else not turn their eyes off the curtain
that's behind his left shoulder?
Actually, you're right.
Is one of the curtains at the end, it's sort of hanging off a bit.
Like there's a ring missing.
What's up?
Yeah.
And I thought Dan was getting slowly more and more purple
as this went on.
Just because you said it, I had to know.
A jugum is not an old word for a curtain ring.
A jugum is specifically a forceps for compressing the penis
in olden days using an anti masturbatory device, apparently.
Apparently you needed a word that specific.
Okay, so great swelling took place around the ring
and he was unable to remove the--
It seems like they're using it metaphorically
because that's how he was using it, right?
He was almost using it like one of these medical things.
His penis worked again.
Like it worked normally again.
He was like, "Wow, my penis is flowing nicely.
This is in his 60s."
Yeah, but he always got an erection whenever he heard a curtain
being moved, which is very embarrassing.
Can I tell you an anecdote about politics?
Which is not French, but I kind of like it.
It's about a vote, so it is kind of related.
So this is in 1872 and there was a vote
against the New Zealand government.
And it looked like it was going to come down to one vote.
So this is like, what do you call that,
when it's like in confidence of the government?
So if they lose this, the government could fall.
And it was going to come down to one vote.
And one of the governing party called Edward Wakefield
was a massive drunk, okay?
So his colleagues locked him in a room
and they took all of his alcohol away from him
and they kept him in this room and they said,
"Right, we're going to leave you there.
We're going to keep you sober.
And then as soon as the vote starts, we'll let you out
and you can vote and then you can do whatever you want."
Okay?
So they put Edward Wakefield in this room
and the opposition learned about it
and so they lowered a bottle of whiskey down the chimney
of the room that he was in.
He drank the whiskey and he was unable to vote
and the government of New Zealand fell.
Oh, wow.
Jesus, amazing.
Brilliant.
That's incredible.
Wow.
You really do have a problem then.
I think the next trip when you let out of that room
is a trip to the AA.
He must have thought it was Christmas, right?
When the bottle of whiskey comes down.
Santa's changed, hasn't he?
Yeah.
Can't be asked to come down the chimney himself anymore.
Oh, that's great.
Well, do you want to, look,
do you just want to impress your curtain-loving friends?
Always.
Yes, please.
Yes, you do.
Do you know what you call a curtain's helmet?
I didn't even know a curtain had a helmet, Anna, embarrassing me.
Well, when I say helmet, what I mean is,
you know, on quite old-fashioned curtains
or on eight curtains, you get like a fabric
or sometimes a wooden border at the top.
Or a skirt, like a top skirt for the curtains.
Like a hem, kind of thing.
Yeah, but an upper and sort of a high hem.
I'd call it a skirtan if we were starting
from scratch with the language.
That's actually better, and that wouldn't have forced me
into saying, do you know what you call a curtain's helmet
when it's clear?
Not a helmet, but it is called a pelmet.
Pelmet, okay, yeah.
It's called a pelmet.
Oh, well, that's quite good,
because isn't a pelmet slang for an extremely short skirt,
like a racially short skirt as a pelmet?
Is it?
Oh, yeah.
It might be.
If a curtain was analogous to a pair of legs,
that little bit at the top would be a pelmet, wouldn't it?
Yeah, yeah.
Dude, I did not know that,
but that feels like one must be named after the other.
It is like a pelmet, yeah.
Do you know what kind of pelmet, though, a lambrokin is?
No, I don't. A lambrokin, no.
Or a lambroquin is a pelmet with such deep sides
they extend to the floor.
Just if you're ever at anyone's house, you can say,
"I love your lambroquins."
I think you're more likely to say,
"Have you considered having some lambroquins here?"
Because they're not likely to have them themselves.
Pelmet, which goes all the way to the floor?
On the sides of the curtain.
Yeah, yeah, not all the way down,
because that would be a blinding.
That's a curtain.
Wow.
Is it to conceal?
It's like a square curtain,
so it would come out on the sides,
and then it would be kind of flat in the front,
and you'd have your pelmet at the top,
but then on the sides, it would come all the way down.
I see, so you're framing.
And yes, it is.
That's quite nice. I might get that.
It is, in answer to your assumption, Andy,
it is to conceal the embarrassing bits,
like the curtain rings and the pole.
Well, now we know they are functionally cock rings.
I think it's probably quite a good idea to hide them.
Okay, it is time for fact number three,
and that is my fact.
My fact this week is that one of the biggest
theme parks in China
has a ride that puts visitors in a coffin,
rolls them into a chamber,
and then simulates their cremation.
This is the Sad Mahi game.
It's the experience of death.
The cremator goes by many, many names.
It is a very bizarre 4D virtual experience
that supposedly, according to reports from 2014,
costs roughly 26 pounds.
And the idea is that you go into a morgue,
you get into a coffin,
and they push you through on a conveyor belt
all the way to the crematorium,
where then you are burnt to a cinder,
at least that's the sensation that you're going to get.
Lots of hot air, lots of weird lights,
and it just prepares you for your inevitable death
is the idea.
I mean, first of all, it's not the sensation.
I think they claim it.
It's not the sensation of being burnt to a cinder is it?
Because that would be a much less pleasant ride.
It's a sensation of being a bit worn with some weird lights.
Well, there are two.
The two people who came up with the idea
who are Huangei Wipeng and Dingrui.
They're two people from Shanghai.
When Huangei went into it,
he said, "I couldn't breathe,
and I thought my life was over."
That was the first time he ever tried it.
So to him, he thought he was dying, get it?
Yeah.
Although, but that was when he...
So they, I think to prepare for making this,
they asked to be sent through a crematorium, right?
And they asked the controller of the crematorium
to let them experience cremation
with the crucial difference
that he turned off the furnace.
It does say it heats you up to about 40 degrees Celsius,
not Fahrenheit, which is, that's warm.
That is very warm.
I would feel pretty uncomfortable at that.
Yeah.
I think it depends on also, you know, if you're claustrophobic,
if you, you know, so many senses are going to come into play.
But they do say it's an authentic experience of burning.
And I think that sounds quite fun.
So the idea is it's not a ride like,
let's say, the big one or oblivion or something like that.
It's basically like an escape room.
And there's a load of challenges.
And let's say there's us four are doing all the challenges.
After each one, whoever does the challenge worst
will, in inverted commas, die.
And then when you die, you get put into the coffin
and they do this kind of cremation thing.
And then there's three people left.
And then whoever comes last out of those three people
then does the cremation.
So you're each kind of challenge.
You're trying not to die.
And the worst person does die.
And then in the end, the last person,
they actually make them die anyway
because all people die in the end.
That's the idea.
So everyone gets to do the little ride at the end.
But yeah, it's like challenges that you have to do to get to it.
I would love, by the way, if anyone's listening to this,
who's been to the cremator,
to please let us know what it was actually like.
Because I can't find anyone really who's properly done it.
Like I went on TripAdvisor
and it says that this is part of the windows of the world
amusement park in Shenzhen.
So this is a pretty amazing place.
Where they've replicated some of the biggest landmarks in the world.
Some to sort of quite a nice big scale.
Like the Eiffel Tower is the third of the size of the Eiffel Tower.
They've got a life-size Mount Rushmore.
They've got, you know,
you can do anything that's a sort of landmark around the world.
They most likely have it.
And then supposedly they have this random cremator game
that you can play.
No one on TripAdvisor has mentioned it.
I can't see anyone who's been to it.
So I would love to know.
Do you think, is it possible that they keep
forgetting to turn off the furnace?
Thank God they don't survive to leave the one-star review.
It's funny because I'm not really worried
about the being cremated a bit.
Because I don't expect to be.
If I am conscious for that,
something's gone so badly wrong
that even the brief preparation I've done at this escape room,
I think is not going to be enough good
to see me through it with a calm mood.
That's a tricky one.
Yeah.
Do you guys have anything on cremation?
I can just say a little bit more on this particular thing.
Yeah, let's do it.
Yeah, sorry.
Yeah, yeah.
So this ride escape room thing,
it comes from something called the Coffin Academy,
which began in South Korea.
And this was a...
The idea was that it's trying to prepare people for death.
And if you prepare for death,
then it makes you able to live your life more freely
because you're not worried about something
that might happen.
And it was founded by a guy called Jung Joon.
And Samsung in South Korea,
they required 900 of their employees
to go to some of these sessions
so that they could learn about what might happen when you die.
And you write your own epitaph,
you compose last letters to your loved ones,
and you're placed in a coffin for 10 minutes at the end.
And that's supposed to be like this memento mori
of reminding you to live your life
because one day you might die.
That's really good.
I hope they don't post the letters
because that's a distressing experience for their families
if they accidentally mix up in the post-dream.
Yeah.
It does work though.
Thinking incessantly about death
is actually good for you, apparently.
And I think it was about South Korea's
soaring suicide rate, wasn't it?
They wanted to combat
because it's the highest suicide rate in the world, I think.
But there have been studies that show,
if you think about dying for five minutes a day,
apparently five to 10 minutes a day,
you will be happier.
And they did a study where they got people to write emails
or respond to emails about dying and death every day
for about 10 minutes.
And they found that the people who had done that,
they had increased positive mood, better self-esteem,
increased intrinsic motivation, whatever that means.
I suppose they felt like they had a reason to live.
And so it does work.
And you can get apps as an app called We Croak
that my husband has, which is very annoying
because it reminds you five times a day
that you're going to die.
What? Hang on, what?
Yeah. And it says, and it's quite annoying
because he rarely uses his phone.
So it's always the latest message that came up
because it comes up five times a day.
So whenever I'm walking past it and I move the phone,
all I see is the phrase, "Don't forget you're going to die."
Why does he have this?
Because of this psychological thing we were just talking about?
Is this actually, does your husband naturally have this?
Or do you text him this five times a day just?
I've been leaving constant threats.
But yeah, planning your own death, people do.
People plan their own funerals.
It's becoming more and more popular
and actually attend their own funerals now,
which is another way of reminding yourself
you're going to die quite on the nose.
But this is a tradition that started in Japan, apparently,
in the 1990s.
And they're called pre-funerals, or saizenso in Japan.
And I think they started out in response to,
like, funerals are being really commercialized
and people are being ripped off for these
just off the conveyor belt out of the catalogue funerals.
And they thought, "Look, we want some more personalized funerals
and I don't want to fork out so much cash.
I don't want my poor family to be
forking out so much cash after I die."
And so pre-funerals have become a thing.
And it's when people plan and then attend their own funeral,
say a few words, say goodbye.
It's usually older people.
It's quite rare that you get like an 18-year-old
having a pre-funeral.
And then that's nice.
Saves your family having to do it.
And I guess you get to go to your own party
at the end of the day.
That is cool.
Yeah.
To people, I guess people must know
that they're attending your pre-funeral
instead of your funeral.
Yeah, I don't think you do the surprise.
Surprise!
Provide the curtain.
Well, that'd be great use of your escape room coffin.
You'd finally get to use it
instead of it just being a thing for post-death.
Good point.
I do think it's a good idea.
But, and I think it's a good idea from your perspective
as the person who's having the pre-funeral,
if you want to do all the mindfulness
and remind yourself of your potential
and experience life properly.
But I don't think it's a good experience
for people who want to know
what other people would say about them.
No.
Because everyone knows that you're not really,
you're in the front row, you're sitting there.
So they'll say nice things.
But you'll think...
Yeah, but in fairness, Andy,
no people don't go to funerals in general
and say, "Oh, he was a complete idiot."
Thank God I can let loose now that he's not
quite this evil.
If he was here, I wouldn't say this.
But what an asshole.
It's probably pretty similar before and after,
and they're both lies, I think, is what we're saying.
I've definitely read, and this...
I might have said this before.
I've definitely read a funeral director say
that it's really common when bodies are cremated
that you end up with metal implements
that have been left in their body during surgery.
And I've always been so skeptical
about the fact that surgeons are so careless.
They're just dropping things
on our bodies left, right, and centre.
But apparently, that's quite a thing.
You pop in, you get a scalpel and a knife pair of scissors.
Really?
Gossipiboma, it's called, isn't it?
Supposedly.
A what?
It's called gossipiboma.
The...
Sorry?
If someone leaves stuff in your body during surgery,
that's the technical word for it.
And it comes from gossipimus,
which means cloth or something.
Okay.
Which word do you think is rarer?
Gossipiboma or jugum?
I'd never heard of jugum before today.
I must admit.
I think you might be right.
You know when you're being cremated?
Yeah.
And you go through the curtains?
There's a lot of French politicians.
Nightmare.
What's the next thing that happens?
Fire.
Right.
Well, I didn't...
Not necessarily.
Yeah, I didn't think there was fire.
I thought it was deep heat.
Not deep heat.
No, that's fine.
They love you with that thumb.
Yeah, it's just a little bomb.
There's just a muscular masseur
on the other side of the curtain view.
I told you it was just a sprain.
I don't know what it fusses about.
What are you all about?
Deep heat.
What, Dan, what is...
I thought it was an intensive heat,
which instead of a physical fire...
It turns out that you don't automatically
immediately go into the furnace.
Just to be clear, it is not deep heat,
whatever Dan means.
It's flame.
Oh, it is flame.
Gas, power flame.
Yeah, yeah.
But legally, they have 72 hours
before they have to cremate you.
What does that mean?
So do they do fun stuff with your body
in that three days?
No, they're not allowed to interfere.
But they aim to do it on the same day,
but sometimes it's busy
and they don't get around to cremating you.
I suppose they might want to do a few people at once.
I don't think they're allowed to.
No, you're not.
I don't think...
Well, I think because they're getting your remains
for your family.
I didn't mean just put everyone in the same box,
but I thought maybe just not turn the fire on
and then turn it off again,
and then turn it on, then turn it off again.
Maybe.
It's incredibly energy intensive.
I mean, it uses so much energy.
And in fact, there's a...
You guys have heard of Redditch?
The town.
The place.
Yeah, the town.
It's the Birmingham.
Yeah, relatively large cultivation.
Yeah, well, there's a swimming pool in Redditch
which is heated by the local crematorium's spare heat.
I love that.
They voted for it in 2013.
And the council voted for it.
They won an award for it from some green group.
There were lots of protests at the time.
Oh, really?
And ironically, whenever I use deep heat,
because I've seemed to be allergic to capsaicin,
I get a Redditch.
That proves something, doesn't it?
It's hard to tell what.
It shows that the whole universe is connected in some way.
Okay, it is time for our final fact of the show,
and that is James.
Okay, my fact this week is that the actor, Peter O'Toole,
once smuggled a pair of earrings out of grease
by hiding them in his foreskin.
And I must say, I came up with this fact
before we talked about all the, you know,
curtain rings and penises and stuff.
That's just a coincidence that those two things
came up in the same show.
Yeah.
I completely forgot that I had that fact
in relation to this fact.
What an extraordinary thing,
an outer and inner ring in one show.
What an object to smuggle under your foreskin?
A pair of earrings.
Traditionally, quite sharp.
Well, unless they were they clip on?
I think that would actually be more painful.
Oh, yeah.
I think not.
I think because these were ancient,
so I think before the invention of clip on,
not that I know when clip on's were invented,
but I assume they're more modern.
The Etruscans didn't have clip on their rings.
We'd have to rethink a lot of our assumptions.
Seems unlikely.
So we are currently just coming to the end
of the T series of QI,
and we're doing a section on tools.
And I thought when I was looking at the scripts,
I would flesh one of them out
with an anecdote about Peter O'Toole.
So I thought if I'd find any anecdotes about him.
And I found this one in the telegraph,
and then it was also in a biography of him
by Nicholas Wapshot.
And he said that while Peter O'Toole
was filming Lawrence of Arabia,
he developed a love of exotic antiquities.
And so knowing that he wasn't allowed
to take these things out of Greece legally,
he thought, "Where can I hide them?"
And no one would think of looking.
And he said, "Nicholas Wapshot says
it was an act of daring
which caused him pain for weeks afterwards."
Wow.
Okay, so this wasn't a classic.
This wasn't like how we got the Elgin marbles here.
This is a very unique smuggling use.
They were actually-
That's a big brag, isn't it?
If you say, "Oh, I smuggled the Elgin marbles out of mine."
They were smuggled in an elephant's foreskin
all the way through the roads of Cornwall.
Do we know if he weaved them through
or just tucked them under?
I don't know for certain,
but it can only be tucked under.
It could be tucked under.
He didn't pierce his voice.
How do we weave them through?
No, if he pierced his voice.
You would not do that.
The only other way I can think of doing it
is you kind of sellotape them to your penis
and wait for the foreskin to grow over them
over many, many years.
That's the only other positive.
Come on, game with those.
Well, he was out there filming it for two years.
Maybe the filming only took a month,
but he had to wait the remaining year and three quarters
for the skin to grow.
There is scant more information about this
that I managed to find.
I don't know if you guys did,
but it's just an anecdote in his anecdote filled life.
Yes, I do.
Actually, I do have a related anecdote
just before we get into Petro Tool.
I do on this subject have a similar story.
A friend of mine, I don't know if I should say this,
but in the dressing room before each show,
one of his colleagues would play a game
with all of them called Guess What's Under the Foreskin,
where he would hide something beneath his foreskin,
show everyone the foreskin,
and the rest of the cast would have to guess what it was.
Okay, and so the idea is you can see the outline.
So if it was like a mountain bike,
you'd be able to tell the shape of the wheels and stuff.
That's a fucked up Christmas.
That's how your presents are wrapped.
So I asked for the kind of things that he said.
He said once it was an old-fashioned penny,
once it was seven jelly beans.
How are you supposed to identify an old-fashioned penny?
You can't read the date inscribed on a penny
through a foreskin. That's too much to ask.
You can tell which monarch is depicted.
That is a hell of a brass rubbing to work that out.
He was extremely eccentric.
I mean, there are so many stories about him.
So for example, his wife got him some ping-pong balls
to throw at the TV screen when he didn't like it.
That doesn't sound very rock and roll,
but apparently she only did this
because he broke their previous TV set
by throwing a smaller TV through it.
Right. That's amazing.
Isn't that rock and roll?
That's impressive.
That's like one of those kids games
where you have to fit the appropriate shape into itself.
And he's done it right.
We should say really quickly,
because a lot of people will be a lot younger,
might not have even heard of Peter at all,
but this guy was a ginormous actor
in the day of old Hollywood.
So Lawrence of Arabia probably has seminal role.
The big epic, some three hours and a bit long,
he played the role of Lawrence.
And he was part of that crew of Hollywood
that were the sort of hellraisers,
these people that just didn't care about what they were doing.
And he was nominated eight times for best actor in the Oscars.
So he was a huge player.
I never won an acting Oscar, did he?
And that's, I think, the record with Glenn Close,
both him and Glenn Close, eight times nominated no wins.
- Wow. - Yeah.
And at least Glenn Close can say, "Oh, so close."
He doesn't even have that.
Yeah, he was quite pissed off about that, I think.
In fact, he was offered an honorary Oscar in 2003,
and that was when he'd had seven nominations for best actor.
And he didn't want to take it.
He said, "I'd like to defer that for at least 10 years
'cause I might yet win the lovely bugger outright," he said.
And the only reason he did go and accept the honorary Oscar
was 'cause his daughter wanted a jaunt in LA.
So he went and did it.
And then he got nominated an eighth time in 2007.
Didn't win that either. - Didn't win it.
- Poor guy. - Hmm.
- There are worse fates, but... - There are.
He was friends with Samuel Beckett, who we mentioned before.
Yeah, there's a story, it's not much of a story, really,
that he kind of had a big night out with Samuel Beckett and Soho.
I'm sitting in the hallway drinking whiskey until the early hours,
getting the policemen involved and having drinks with them.
His second Oscar nomination was for Beckett, the movie Beckett,
in which he played Henry II, so that was about Thomas Beckett.
So he was friends with Samuel Beckett,
he was nominated for the movie Beckett,
and he was born on Beckett Street in Leeds.
- Wow. - Wow.
- Amazing. - Very cool.
He had lots, as I suppose everyone has,
who's been a jobbing actor for ages,
had lots of other jobs to actually pay the bills.
But he worked, I think, quite a good expression of his personality
was the fact that he worked as a steeplejack,
and he worked as a demolition man,
and this was in his early twenties, I think, when he was in Leeds.
And he loved it.
He said, "Blowing things up and knocking things down
"with a bloody great hammer.
"Nobody gave a flying shit for health and safety in those days.
"It was glorious."
And he loved that.
And I think he also loved being in the Navy, didn't he?
- Yes. - Sorry, what were you gonna say?
A steeplejack.
That's somebody who climbs up very tall buildings,
isn't it, a steeplejack?
- Yeah. - What do they do when they're up there?
I thought they kind of fixed them.
Although, this implies that he's knocking it down,
so it sounds like he's doing it wrong.
- Yeah, yeah. - It's one of those old jobs.
- Yeah, oldy jobs, yeah. - Yeah.
The robots can do it now.
Just an irrelevant thing about climbing up tall buildings.
I learned the word "flaunching" the other day.
- Oh, yeah. - Oh, yeah.
- "Flaunching." - Is it "launching" yourself off a flock?
(laughing)
It's, this is very, it's actually extremely boring,
but you know the chimney pot at the top of a,
there's a chimney stack,
and then there's a tiny bit right at the top
with the round chimney pot.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
The little layer of cement mortar
between the stack and the pot is called the "flaunching."
- Okay. - Right.
- Quite a niche thing to have a word for, really.
- I know, but if you have a roof around,
you can knock them dead by saying,
"Have you considered the "flaunching?"
(laughing)
- Is it maybe a problem with the "flaunching?"
- That was like when I learned that brickwork
had to be pointed.
I still don't know what it means,
but I used to whenever a builder came around,
I was like, "Oh, I think these bricks need to be pointed."
- Mm, yeah, yeah.
- Wow, God, that is a useful word.
Like.
- Anyway, what are we learning today?
We've learned "Jugum, Flaunching,"
and what was the curtains one?
- It's a lambroquin.
- Lambroquin. - Wow.
- Like a harlequin who's drunk on lambrini.
That's how you remember it.
- Flaunching.
- First, there's a problem with my "flaunching,"
then the lambroquins fall over.
I tell you, if something happens to my "Jugum" next,
that's gonna be the full set.
(laughing)
- When they were delivering that bowl of whiskey
to that New Zealand guy,
was the "flaunching" an issue in getting the bottle down?
- Great question.
- I don't think the "flaunching" usually gets in the way,
sounds like, unless it's very badly done.
- Okay.
- And you don't want bad "flaunching" on a house,
that'll ruin the valley.
- No.
(laughing)
- Yes, I'm so sorry.
- Peter O'Toole?
- We were talking about Peter O'Toole.
I'm sorry for distracting you.
- In 1980, he did Macbeth, the old Vic,
and it was absolutely hammered.
The critics hated it.
They said he was as subtle as a battering ram.
The Observer said there are chances that he likes to play,
but his performance suggests
that he is taking some kind of personal revenge on it.
So he's like, "Really, really, really hated."
But the people loved it,
because it was Peter O'Toole, he's very famous.
It was almost kind of fun to go and watch something
that was so bad, it was good kind of thing.
But it could have been so much better,
because originally he was the director,
and he was basically allowed to do what he wanted.
And so he decided it was going to be an inflatable Macbeth.
And he had a friend who was working for a company
called Labuta Limited,
which was making inflatables
that you could keep in the boot of your car.
And he decided that he was going to commission this person
to do all of the scenery in Macbeth,
and it was going to be a massive inflatable Macbeth.
And in the first time they tried to do the rehearsals,
someone said that,
"The curtain rose to reveal a dimly-lit collection
of black plastic fallacies swaying in the wind."
- Nice.
- And on top of that, no one could hear
what anyone was saying,
because these were inflatables
that had to be constantly blown up.
So it was just like the air compression
was just like the whole time.
No one could hear anything that they were saying.
And so in the end, he scrapped the inflatables,
but it was still a terrible, terrible play.
- Peter, it's all sort of started acting by mistake.
- He was steeple-jacking one day, wasn't he?
And there was accidentally an audience
at the top of the flaunching he was climbing up towards.
- Yes, it flaunched his career, didn't it?
(laughing)
- No, it wasn't that.
He was doing, he was in Leeds,
he was doing a poetry course.
He actually always wanted to do something in poetry.
He loved literature and poetry.
He was doing a poetry course in Leeds,
and there was a professional production
of "Fathers and Sons" going on down the road,
and the lead actor in that production
fell down some stairs and broke some bones.
And in fact, O'Toole remembered,
his name was Gordon Luck.
So, ouch, doubly painful for him.
Parole Gordon, Gordon.
- It suffered some bad luck.
- Gordon, unlucky.
Fell down some stairs.
And they'd seen Peter O'Toole
do some sort of little skit for fun
on an amateur stage in the area the year before.
So they said, "Look, do you want to play the lead
in "Fathers and Sons?"
And he said, "Yes."
And he played it for two weeks.
He said, "I played it for two weeks,
and then I got the bug, and there was no going back."
- What's interesting is that it is bad luck
to say "Gord Luck" in the theatre, isn't it?
You're not supposed to say that.
You're supposed to say "Break a leg."
- Oh my God, of course.
He should have changed.
What could you change your name to
that sounds like "Break a leg."
Like, but...
- If you change your name to Macbeth,
no one will ever call you for anything
in the theatre at all.
- Why am I not booking any gigs?
- He once took a double bed on the northern line,
Peter O'Toole.
- Yeah.
- Where did he take it?
- Okay.
- To another, to a different stop on the northern line.
- Why?
- Did he just not, he'd thought
the seats were uncomfortable.
- No, he had to move the bed from one place to another.
It was in 1954 and it was an anecdote
in his autobiography.
- I think the interesting part about the anecdote
is he didn't pay, right?
And he sneaked it on and sneaked it off
and he managed to sneak it through the turnstiles,
a double bed without anyone noticing.
- I think there were no turnstiles at the time.
He says at the start of the earlier,
"This is before the bad days of turnstiles."
But still, it's very impressive.
- Yeah, I mean, how big was his foreskin?
(laughing)
- It's extraordinary.
- Okay, that's it.
That is all of our facts.
Thank you so much for listening.
If you'd like to get in contact with any of us
about the things that we've said
over the course of this podcast,
we can be found on our Twitter accounts.
I'm on at Shriverland, Andy.
- At Andrew Hunter M.
- James.
- At James Harkin.
- And Anna.
- You can email podcast at qi.com.
- Yep, or you can go to our group account,
which is @NoSuchThing or our website,
NoSuchThingAsAfish.com.
All of our previous episodes are up there.
Do check them out.
But otherwise, come back next week
because we will be back again with another episode
and we'll see you then.
Goodbye.
(upbeat music)
(gentle music)